"And  do  not  pursue  that  of  which  you  have  no  knowledge.  Indeed,  the  hearing,  the sight  and  the  heart  -   about  all  those  [one]  will  be  questioned." 17:36
"O  you  who  have  believed,  avoid  much  [negative]  assumption.  Indeed,  some  assumption is  sin.  And  do  not  spy  or  backbite  each  other.  Would  one  of  you  like  to  eat  the  flesh  of his  brother  when  dead?  You  would  detest  it.  And  fear Allah ;  indeed, Allah is  Accepting of  repentance  and  Merciful." 49:12
"He  said,  "I  only  complain  of  my  suffering  and  my  grief  to Allah ,  and  I  know  from Allah that  which  you  do  not  know." 12:86 (Ya'kub A.S.)
"[Moses]  said,  "You  will  find  me,  if Allah wills,  patient,  and  I  will  not  disobey  you  in [any]  order." 18:69
"And  never  say  of  anything,  "Indeed,  I  will  do  that  tomorrow, Except  [when  adding],  "If Allah wills."  And  remember  your  Lord  when  you  forget  [it] and  say,  "Perhaps  my  Lord  will  guide  me  to  what  is  nearer  than  this  to  right  conduct." 18:23,24
"And seek help through patience and prayer, and indeed, it is difficult except for the humbly submissive [to Allah ]" 2:45
"Indeed, Allah loves  those  who  rely  [upon Him]." 3:159
"Sufficient  for  us  is Allah , and  [He  is]  the  best  Disposer  of  affairs." 3:173
"Who  remember Allah while  standing  or  sitting  or  [lying]  on  their  sides  and  give  thought to  the  creation  of  the  heavens  and  the  earth,  [saying],  "Our  Lord,  You  did  not  create this  aimlessly;  exalted  are  You  [above  such  a  thing];  then  protect  us  from  the punishment  of  the  Fire." 3:191
"And  the  record  [of  deeds]  will  be  placed  [open],  and  you  will  see  the  criminals  fearful  of that  within  it,  and  they  will  say,  "Oh,  woe  to  us!  What  is  this  book  that  leaves  nothing small  or  great  except  that  it  has  enumerated  it?"  And  they  will  find  what  they  did present  [before  them].  And  your  Lord  does  injustice  to  no  one." 18:49
"And  [also  for]  those  who  were  settled  in  al-Madinah  and  [adopted]  the  faith  before  them. They  love  those  who  emigrated  to  them  and  find  not  any  want  in  their  breasts  of  what the  emigrants  were  given  but  give  [them]  preference  over  themselves,  even  though  they are  in  privation.  And  whoever  is  protected  from  the  stinginess  of  his  soul  -   it  is  those who  will  be  the  successful." 59:9
"And  [there  is  a  share  for]  those  who  came  after  them,  saying,  "Our  Lord,  forgive  us  and our  brothers  who  preceded  us  in  faith  and  put  not  in  our  hearts  [any]  resentment toward  those  who  have  believed.  Our  Lord,  indeed  You  are  Kind  and  Merciful." 59:10
"On  the  [same]  Day  the  hypocrite  men  and  hypocrite  women  will  say  to  those  who believed,  "Wait  for  us  that  we  may  acquire  some  of  your  light."  It  will  be  said,  "Go  back behind  you  and  seek  light."  And  a  wall  will  be  placed  between  them  with  a  door,  its interior  containing  mercy,  but  on  the  outside  of  it  is  torment." 57:13
"No  disaster  strikes  upon  the  earth  or  among  yourselves  except  that  it  is  in  a  register before  We  bring  it  into  being  -   indeed  that,  for Allah ,  is  easy  -  In  order  that  you  not  despair  over  what  has  eluded  you  and  not  exult  [in  pride]  over what  He  has  given  you.  And Allah does  not  like  everyone  self-deluded  and  boastful  -  [Those]  who  are  stingy  and  enjoin  upon  people  stinginess.  And  whoever  turns  away  - then  indeed, Allah is  the  Free  of  need,  the  Praiseworthy." 57:22,23,24
"Allah - there is no deity except Him, the Ever-Living, the Sustainer of [all] existence. Neither drowsiness overtakes Him nor sleep. To Him belongs whatever is in the heavens and whatever is on the earth. Who is it that can intercede with Him except by His permission? He knows what is [presently] before them and what will be after them, and they encompass not a thing of His knowledge except for what He wills. His Kursi extends over the heavens and the earth, and their preservation tires Him not. And He is the Most High, the Most Great." 2:255
"Who is better in speech on speech than one who calls (men) to Allah, works righteousness, and says "I am of those who bow in Islam"? And no one will be granted such goodness except those who exercise patience and self restraint none but persons of greatest good fortune" Fushilat 33-34
"... And if he comes to Me walking, I go to him at speed" Hadith Qudsi 15
"O  you  who  have  believed,  be  persistently  standing  firm  for Allah ,  witnesses  in  justice, and  do  not  let  the  hatred  of  a  people  prevent  you  from  being  just.  Be  just;  that  is nearer  to  righteousness.  And  fear Allah ;  indeed, Allah is  Acquainted  with  what  you  do." 5:5
"Certainly  will  the  believers  have  succeeded: They  who  are  during  their  prayer  humbly  submissive, And  they  who  turn  away  from  ill  speech, And  they  who  are  observant  of  zakah, And  they  who  guard  their  private  parts, Except  from  their  wives  or  those  their  right  hands  possess,  for  indeed,  they  will  not  be blamed  - But  whoever  seeks  beyond  that,  then  those  are  the  transgressors  - And  they  who  are  to  their  trusts  and  their  promises  attentive, And  they  who  carefully  maintain  their  prayers  - Those  are  the  inheritors, Who  will  inherit  al-Firdaus.  They  will  abide  therein  eternally." 23:1-11
"And  keep  yourself  patient  [by  being]  with  those  who  call  upon  their  Lord  in  the morning  and  the  evening,  seeking  His  countenance.  And  let  not  your  eyes  pass  beyond them,  desiring  adornments  of  the  worldly  life,  and  do  not  obey  one  whose  heart  We have  made  heedless  of  Our  remembrance  and  who  follows  his  desire  and  whose  affair is  ever  [in]  neglect." 18:28
"If  you  could  but  see  when  the  criminals  are  hanging  their  heads  before  their  Lord, [saying],  "Our  Lord,  we  have  seen  and  heard,  so  return  us  [to  the  world];  we  will  work righteousness.  Indeed,  we  are  [now]  certain." 32:12
"...Allah decrees and what He wills, He does..."
"Indeed,  upon  Us  is  its  collection  [in  your  heart]  and  [to  make  possible]  its  recitation." 75:17
"No!  But  you  love  the  immediate" 75:20
"But  for  your  Lord  be  patient." 74:7
"Indeed,  the  hours  of  the  night  are  more  effective  for  concurrence  [of  heart  and  tongue] and  more  suitable  for  words." 73:6
"Say,  [O  Muhammad],  "I  only  invoke  my  Lord  and  do  not  associate  with  Him  anyone." 72:20
"[He  is]  Knower  of  the  unseen,  and  He  does  not  disclose  His  [knowledge  of  the]  unseen  to anyone" 72:26
"And  [remember]  when  your  Lord  proclaimed,  'If  you  are  grateful,  I  will  surely  increase you  [in  favor];  but  if  you  deny,  indeed,  My  punishment  is  severe.' " 14:7
"Their  messengers  said,  "Can  there  be  doubt  about Allah ,  Creator  of  the  heavens  and earth?  He  invites  you  that  He  may  forgive  you  of  your  sins,  and  He  delays  your  death for  a  specified  term."  They  said,  "You  are  not  but  men  like  us  who  wish  to  avert  us from  what  our  fathers  were  worshipping.    So  bring  us  a  clear  authority."" 14:10
"Know that Allah is severe in penalty and that Allah is Forgiving and Merciful" 5:98
"And  the  servants  of  the  Most  Merciful  are  those  who  walk  upon  the  earth  easily,  and when  the  ignorant  address  them  [harshly],  they  say  [words  of]  peace," 25:63
"And  We  did  not  send  before  you,  [O  Muhammad],  any  of  the  messengers  except  that they  ate  food  and  walked  in  the  markets.  And  We  have  made  some  of  you  [people]  as trial  for  others  -   will  you  have  patience?  And  ever  is  your  Lord,  Seeing." 25:20
"And  do  not  send  away  those  who  call  upon  their  Lord  morning  and  afternoon,  seeking His  countenance.  Not  upon  you  is  anything  of  their  account  and  not  upon  them  is anything  of  your  account.  So  were  you  to  send  them  away,  you  would  [then]  be  of  the wrongdoers." 6:51
"So  when  they  forgot  that  by  which  they  had  been  reminded,  We  opened  to  them  the doors  of  every  [good]  thing  until,  when  they  rejoiced  in  that  which  they  were  given,  We seized  them  suddenly,  and  they  were  [then]  in  despair." 6:44
"Say,  "Never  will  we  be  struck  except  by  what Allah has  decreed  for  us;  He  is  our protector."  And  upon Allah let  the  believers  rely." 9:51
"And  what  prevents  their  expenditures  from  being  accepted  from  them  but  that  they have  disbelieved  in Allah and  in  His  Messenger  and  that  they  come  not  to  prayer except  while  they  are  lazy  and  that  they  do  not  spend  except  while  they  are  unwilling." 9:54
"Would that they were content with what Allah and His Messenger had given to them, and were to say, “Allah is sufficient for us; Allah and His Messenger will give us (more) out of His grace (when they so will). Indeed, we crave for (the pleasure of) Allah alone.” 9:59
"Surely We will test you with a bit of fear and hunger, and loss in wealth and lives and fruits, and give good tidings to the patient. who, when a suffering visits them, say: “We certainly belong to Allah, and to Him we are bound to return.”" 2:155-156
"So, (O messenger,) endure with patience what they say, and proclaim the purity and praise of your Lord before sunrise and before sunset. And in some hours of night, proclaim His purity, and at points of the day as well, so that you may be pleased. Never stretch your eyes towards the things We have given to some groups of them to enjoy, so that We put them to test thereby, it being merely glamour of the worldly life. And the bounty of your Lord is much better and more lasting." 20:130-131
"Allah intends (through this Qur’ān) to explain to you (the rules) and to guide you to the ways of those (prophets who passed) before you, and to turn graciously towards you. Allah is All-Knowing, All-Wise. Allah intends to turn graciously towards you, while those who follow desires want you to deviate (from the right path), a huge deviation. Allah intends to make things easy on you. And man has been created weak." 4:26-28
A person asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), "What should a Muhrim wear?" He replied, "He should not wear shirts, trousers, a burnus (a hooded cloak), or clothes which are stained with saffron or Wars (a kind of perfume). Whoever does not find a sandal to wear can wear Khuffs (socks made from thick fabric or leather), but these should be cut short so as not to cover the ankles.  -  Sahih al-Bukhari 365
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade Ishtimal-As-Samma' (wrapping one's body with a garment so that one cannot raise its end or take one's hand out of it). He also forbade Al-Ihtiba' (sitting on buttocks with knees close to `Abdomen and feet apart with the hands circling the knees) while wrapping oneself with a single garment, without having a part of it over the private parts.  -  Sahih al-Bukhari 367
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:  -  The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The people were displayed in front of me and I saw one prophet passing by with a large group of his followers, and another prophet passing by with only a small group of people, and another prophet passing by with only ten (persons), and another prophet passing by with only five (persons), and another prophet passed by alone. And then I looked and saw a large multitude of people, so I asked Gabriel, "Are these people my followers?' He said, 'No, but look towards the horizon.' I looked and saw a very large multitude of people. Gabriel said. 'Those are your followers, and those are seventy thousand (persons) in front of them who will neither have any reckoning of their accounts nor will receive any punishment.' I asked, 'Why?' He said, 'For they used not to treat themselves with branding (cauterization) nor with Ruqya (get oneself treated by the recitation of some Verses of the Qur'an) and not to see evil omen in things, and they used to put their trust (only) in their Lord." On hearing that, 'Ukasha bin Mihsan got up and said (to the Prophet), "Invoke Allah to make me one of them." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Allah, make him one of them." Then another man got up and said (to the Prophet), "Invoke Allah to make me one of them." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Ukasha has preceded you."  -  Sahih al-Bukhari 6541
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:  -  The Prophet (ﷺ) narrating about his Lord I'm and said, "Allah ordered (the appointed angels over you) that the good and the bad deeds be written, and He then showed (the way) how (to write). If somebody intends to do a good deed and he does not do it, then Allah will write for him a full good deed (in his account with Him); and if he intends to do a good deed and actually did it, then Allah will write for him (in his account) with Him (its reward equal) from ten to seven hundred times to many more times: and if somebody intended to do a bad deed and he does not do it, then Allah will write a full good deed (in his account) with Him, and if he intended to do it (a bad deed) and actually did it, then Allah will write one bad deed (in his account) ."  -  Sahih al-Bukhari 6491
Narrated Jabir:  -  Never was the Prophet (ﷺ) asked for a thing to be given for which his answer was 'no'.  -  Sahih al-Bukhari 6034
Narrated Abu Huraira:  -  The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah likes sneezing and dislikes yawning, so if someone sneezes and then praises Allah, then it is obligatory on every Muslim who heard him, to say: May Allah be merciful to you (Yar-hamuka-l-lah). But as regards yawning, it is from Satan, so one must try one's best to stop it, if one says 'Ha' when yawning, Satan will laugh at him."  -  Sahih al-Bukhari 6223
Narrated Abu Barza:  -  Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) disliked to sleep before the `Isha' prayer and to talk after it.  -  Sahih al-Bukhari 568
Narrated `Aisha:  -  In my house he (Prophet (p.b.u.h) ) never passed the last hours of the night but sleeping.  -  Reference	 : Sahih al-Bukhari 1133
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr bin Al-`As:  -  Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) told me, "The most beloved prayer to Allah is that of David and the most beloved fasts to Allah are those of David. He used to sleep for half of the night and then pray for one third of the night and again sleep for its sixth part and used to fast on alternate days."  -  Reference	 : Sahih al-Bukhari 1131
Hudaifah (May Allah be pleased with him) reported:  -  Whenever the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) got up (from sleep), he would rub his teeth with Miswak (tooth-stick).[Al-Bukhari and Muslim].  -  Sunnah.com reference	 : Book 9, Hadith 207
Usamah bin Zaid (May Allah be pleased with them) reported:  -  The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said, "He who is favoured by another and says to his benefactor: `Jazak-Allah khairan (may Allah reward you well)' indeed praised (the benefactor) satisfactorily.''  -  [At-Tirmidhi].  -  Sunnah.com reference	 : Book 17, Hadith 32
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:  -  That the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "The Muslim is the brother of the Muslim, he doesn't oppress him and doesn't put him into ruin, and whoever is concerned for the needs of his brother, Allah is concerned for his needs, and whoever relieves a Muslim of a burden, Allah will relieve him of a burden from the burdens of the Day of Judgement and whoever covers (the faults of) a Muslim, Allah will cover (his faults) on the Day of Judgement."َ  -  Grade	: Sahih (Darussalam)  -  Reference	 : Jami` at-Tirmidhi 1426  -  In-book reference	 : Book 17, Hadith 6
Ibn Mas'ud narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:  -  "The feet of the son of Adam shall not move from before his Lord on the Day of Judgement, until he is asked about five things: about his life and what he did with it, about his youth and what he wore it out in, about his wealth and how he earned it and spent it upon, and what he did with what he knew."  -  Grade	: Da'if (Darussalam)  -  English reference	 : Vol. 4, Book 11, Hadith 2416
Narrated Abu Musa:  -  Some people asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), "Whose Islam is the best? i.e. (Who is a very good Muslim)?" He replied, "One who avoids harming the Muslims with his tongue and hands."  -  Reference	 : Sahih al-Bukhari 11
Narrated 'Abdullah bin 'Amr:  -  A man asked the Prophet (ﷺ) , "What sort of deeds or (what qualities of) Islam are good?" The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, 'To feed (the poor) and greet those whom you know and those whom you do not Know (See Hadith No. 27).  -  Reference	 : Sahih al-Bukhari 12
Narrated Abu Huraira:  -  The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Religion is very easy and whoever overburdens himself in his religion will not be able to continue in that way. So you should not be extremists, but try to be near to perfection and receive the good tidings that you will be rewarded; and gain strength by worshipping in the mornings, the afternoons, and during the last hours of the nights." (See Fath-ul-Bari, Page 102, Vol 1).  -  Reference	 : Sahih al-Bukhari 39
Narrated Abu Huraira:  -  Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If any one of you improve (follows strictly) his Islamic religion then his good deeds will be rewarded ten times to seven hundred times for each good deed and a bad deed will be recorded as it is."  -  Reference	 : Sahih al-Bukhari 42
Narrated 'Aisha:  -  Once the Prophet (ﷺ) came while a woman was sitting with me. He said, "Who is she?" I replied, "She is so and so," and told him about her (excessive) praying. He said disapprovingly, "Do (good) deeds which is within your capacity (without being overtaxed) as Allah does not get tired (of giving rewards) but (surely) you will get tired and the best deed (act of Worship) in the sight of Allah is that which is done regularly."  -  Reference	 : Sahih al-Bukhari 43
Narrated 'Umar bin Al-Khattab:  -  Once a Jew said to me, "O the chief of believers! There is a verse in your Holy Book Which is read by all of you (Muslims), and had it been revealed to us, we would have taken that day (on which it was revealed as a day of celebration." 'Umar bin Al-Khattab asked, "Which is that verse?" The Jew replied, "This day I have perfected your religion For you, completed My favor upon you, And have chosen for you Islam as your religion." (5:3) 'Umar replied,"No doubt, we know when and where this verse was revealed to the Prophet. It was Friday and the Prophet (ﷺ) was standing at 'Arafat (i.e. the Day of Hajj)"  -  Reference	 : Sahih al-Bukhari 45
Narrated An-Nu'man bin Bashir:  -  I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, 'Both legal and illegal things are evident but in between them there are doubtful (suspicious) things and most of the people have no knowledge about them. So whoever saves himself from these suspicious things saves his religion and his honor. And whoever indulges in these suspicious things is like a shepherd who grazes (his animals) near the Hima (private pasture) of someone else and at any moment he is liable to get in it. (O people!) Beware! Every king has a Hima and the Hima of Allah on the earth is His illegal (forbidden) things. Beware! There is a piece of flesh in the body if it becomes good (reformed) the whole body becomes good but if it gets spoilt the whole body gets spoilt and that is the heart.  -  Reference	 : Sahih al-Bukhari 52
Abud-Darda' (May Allah be pleased with him) reported:  -  The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said, "One of Prophet Dawud's supplications was: 'Allahumma inni as'aluka hubbaka, wa hubba man yuhibbuka, wal-'amalalladhi yuballighuni hubbaka. Allahumm-aj'al hubbaka ahabba ilayya min nafsi, wa ahli, wa minal-ma'il-baridi (O Allah! I ask You for Your Love, the love of those who love You, and deeds which will cause me to attain Your Love. O Allah! Make Your Love dearer to me than myself, my family and the cold water)."'  -  [At- Tirmidhi].
La illaha illal-lah wahdahu la sharika lahu, lahul mulk wa lahul hamd wa huwa ala kulli shaein qadir
Allahumma a'inna'ala dhikrika wa shukrika wa husni ibadatika  -  "O Allah help me to remember You. To thank You. And to worship You in the best of manners"
Allahuma inne a'udhu bika min sharri ma 'amiltu, wa min sharri malam a'mal  -  "O Allah! I seek refuge in You from the evil of that which I have done and the evil of that which I have not done"
Allahuma antas salamu wa minkus salamu tabarakta ya thaljalali wal ikrami
La illaha illa anta subhanaka inni kumtu min as zualimein  -  "There is no deity except You; exalted are You. Indeed I have been of the wrong doers"
Allahuma innee a'oodhu bika min 'adhaab jahannam, wa min 'adhaab al-qabr, wa min fitnati'l mahyaa wa'l mamaat, wa min sharri fitnati'l maseeh al dajjal
Rabbana atina fi ad dunya hasanatan wa fi al akhirati hasanatan wa qina adhaba an nar
Rabbi inni lima anzalta illaya min khairin faqir  -  "My Lord,  indeed  I  am,  for  whatever  good  You  would  send  down  to  me,  in  need."  -  28:24
وَالَّذِينَ يَقُولُونَ رَبَّنَا هَبْ لَنَا مِنْ أَزْوَاجِنَا وَذُرِّيَّاتِنَا قُرَّةَ أَعْيُنٍ وَاجْعَلْنَا لِلْمُتَّقِينَ إِمَامًا  -  Rabbana hab lana min azwajina wa zuriyatina quratta ayunin waj alna lil muttaqena imama  -  "Our  Lord,  grant  us  from  among  our  wives  and  offspring  comfort to  our  eyes  and  make  us  an  example  for  the  righteous."  -  25:74
Rabbanna zalamna Anfusanna wain lam taghfirlanna warhamna lanakunnanna minnal khasirien  -  "Our  Lord,  we  have  wronged  ourselves,  and  if  You  do  not  forgive  us  and have  mercy  upon  us,  we  will  surely  be  among  the  losers."  -  7:23
Inna lillahi wa Inna ilayhi raji'un. Allahumma ajurni fee musibati, wa akhlif Lee khayran minha   -  "We belong to Allah and to him shall we return; O Allah, reward me for my affliction and give me something better than it in exchange for it" 
"My  Lord,  make  me  an  establisher  of  prayer,  and  [many]  from  my  descendants.  Our Lord,  and  accept  my  supplication.  -  Our  Lord,  forgive  me  and  my  parents  and  the  believers  the  Day  the  account  is established."  -  14:40
رَبَّنَا أَفْرِغْ عَلَيْنَا صَبْرًا وَتَوَفَّنَا مُسْلِمِينَ  -  Rabbana afrigh alaina sabran watawafana muslimeen  -  "Our Lord, pour upon us patience and let us die as Muslims (in submission to You)"  -  7:126
رَبِّ زِدْنِي عِلْمًا  -  “My Lord, improve me in knowledge.”  -  20:114
اللهم إني أسألك حبك، وحب من يحبك، والعمل الذي يبلغني حبك، اللهم اجعل حبك أحب إلى من نفسي، وأهلي، ومن الماء البارد  -  Allahumma inni as'aluka hubbaka, wa hubba man yuhibbuka, wal-'amalalladhi yuballighuni hubbaka. Allahumm-aj'al hubbaka ahabba ilayya min nafsi, wa ahli, wa minal-ma'il-baridi (O Allah! I ask You for Your Love, the love of those who love You, and deeds which will cause me to attain Your Love. O Allah! Make Your Love dearer to me than myself, my family and the cold water).  -  Book 17, Hadith 26
